6/6/26, 2:31 PM Dorms : r/UCI
Educational-Guitar44
Dorms
Hello! I just got into UCI and am seriously considering attending next year! I was wondering if
any students could give me information on the dorms, as I am kind of confused about how it all
works. I would preferably live in a double. What are my best options?
Edit: thank you everyone for your insight! i found it all very helpful :) I am going in undeclared
but am leaning towards bio, so im thinking about middle earth, potentially a classic, but ive
heard mesa is better. im an only child, and i have never shared my space, so i might go crazy
with three other roommates ahahaha. honestly i would love biased opinions, i want to know the
absolute truth about middle earth classics if anyone wants to share their experience!
15 33 Share
Sort by: Best Search Comments
InvestigatorOnly3009 • 3mo ago
Ok hereʼs my opinion on this and what I wish I knew.
1. Youʼre going to read Mesa is more social. Thatʼs not necessarily correct. I live in
Mesa classics and my hall is completely dead and I donʼt know anyone. All my
friends are in middle earth so I spent a ton of time there.
2. Middle is full of stem majors like engineering while Mesa has a mix of everything
else. I donʼt know why this is but itʼs facts.
https://www.reddit.com/r/UCI/comments/1ruj1dt/dorms/
6/6/26, 2:31 PM Dorms : r/UCI
3. Mesa classics are better than middle earths classics… more storage, bigger
rooms, less stuff broken. The towers are the same everywhere but you gotta liv
with 4 people in ONE room and REALLY think about that before you decide that
what u want to do. yes it might sound fun, but it becomes really old really quick
when you want to just chill sometimes. Uhh they also donʼt have bugs… it might
have happened like 4 times in the entire year which is not an epidemic by any
means.
4. Brandywine in middle is significantly better than anteatery… if people say the
opposite they straight up donʼt go here. yeah it has better desserts but they hav
like 1 thing like 50% of the time while Brandy always has stuff. Donʼt listen to
other people bc they donʼt know ball 😭
Unlucky_State_6788 • 3mo ago
Brandywine is not better than Anteatery your deadass lying
ConversationMajor127 • 3mo ago
asseatery came before bootywine.... just so yknow. one thing to note
asseatery froyo machine works more often then brandy's
Unlucky_State_6788 • 3mo ago
Freshman here at UCI (here are my inside tips)
1. Choose Mesa Court (more social and the food is way way way better, trust me i
matters), the walking is manageable despite what anyone else says.
2. Doubles are fine, but if you can adjust Quads are Best, 1. They are cheapest
3. Bathroom shared by 8 people rather than whole floor with 2 showers and toilets
Also cleaned everyday.
4. Most space of all the floor plans
5. Lot of newer rooms and feels, classics feel older and also known to have more
bugs and roaches. (Almost none in towers)
https://www.reddit.com/r/UCI/comments/1ruj1dt/dorms/
6/6/26, 2:31 PM Dorms : r/UCI
If I were you or myself and I could do it again, Mesa Court towers are the way to go.
ipoopmyself123 • 3mo ago
how can a dorm be soecially more social i never understood that
StolenApollo • 3mo ago
Zot Tuah
It canʼt lmao this has always been a dumb take. Middle Earth had so many
activities all the time and the common room was lively and fun. No idea
where this idea started aside from dogpiling on stem majors just for the he
of it.
Unlucky_State_6788 • 3mo ago
Mesa Court towers are open plans so you can visit any floor, while middle
earth you need a key for that specific floor
jjchwi • 3mo ago
You also need a key for specific floors in Mesa towers unless the floor
are connected like 2nd to 3rd floor but after that you need a key to
every other floor
Independent-Ad2443 • 3mo ago
Now tell them about the AC (or search for older posts).
https://www.reddit.com/r/UCI/comments/1ruj1dt/dorms/
6/6/26, 2:31 PM Dorms : r/UCI
Tenuous_Fawn • 3mo ago • Edited 3mo ago
If you want a double you have the choice between middle earth classics and mesa
classics. The difference is in proximity to your classes, middle earth is closer to socia
sciences, engineering, and ics, while mesa is closer to humanities. Subsequently, me
has more humanities-type people while middle earth has more stem-type people. Th
social life and food is better at mesa, but if you're in middle earth you can always jus
walk there every so often.
I would choose based on the type of people you want to hang out with. I would rathe
be with stem people so I chose middle earth towers, and it worked out great.
ConcentrateLeft546 • 3mo ago
Top 1% Commenter
Food is literally the exact same. Both dining halls are serviced by the exact sam
company.
Tenuous_Fawn • 3mo ago
Anteatery has better desserts, among other things. Brandywine has an ext
entre option. The food is not literally the exact same.
Unlucky_State_6788 • 3mo ago
Wrong, Anteatery consistently has way better options on the weekdays.
Brandywine is cheap food with lots of undercooked chicken, borderline
uneatable
GapInfinite5304 • 2mo ago
I asked one of the BW managers, and it's the same menu cycle just
different days. 4 weeks, rinse and repeat.
https://www.reddit.com/r/UCI/comments/1ruj1dt/dorms/
6/6/26, 2:31 PM Dorms : r/UCI
Unlucky_State_6788 • 2mo ago
Quality is also just so much lower, and Anteatery has sandwich
stations and exculsive cycles
Disgraced-Academic • 3mo ago
Undergrad [2026]
There are the classic dorm buildings and the tower buildings. We have two dorm
communities on campus and each has classics and towers. Classics are typically 2
person rooms with a few singles and triples. You have a "suite" of about 6 rooms that
shares one large bathroom and a small study space + a large common area shared with
the whole dorm (number of people varies but mine was ~70). There is also a laundry
room. The towers are similar in amenities but they are newer and therefore nicer. The
rooms are all 4 person set-ups and two rooms share one bathroom (aka 8 people to
one bathroom). There is a large common space and a larger laundry room. The towers
are cheaper, have newer stuff, and are closer to the cafeteria/campus but are more
cramped. Dorms can be further from campus/cafeteria, are way older, and pricier but
have the option for a single or double.
womenloverbot • 3mo ago
quads are the cheapest as others have said but honestly, unless youʼre besties with all
3 of your roommates, a quad is so frustrating. sharing one room with 3 people will
really take a toll on you. i shared a room all my life but became very frustrated in the
quad
Educational-Guitar44 OP • 3mo ago
this is what iʼm worried about! i am an only child and i will acknowledge that im
not used to sharing my space. i think i might go crazy in a quad, but i am also
hearing that the towers are better so im stuck!
https://www.reddit.com/r/UCI/comments/1ruj1dt/dorms/
6/6/26, 2:31 PM Dorms : r/UCI
womenloverbot • 3mo ago
a lot of people say the towers are the best because theyʼre the newest! als
sharing the bathroom with 7 people versus around 12 is simpler. itʼs also
easier to socialize but honestly if youʼre going to join clubs, youʼll find peop
that way anyway. for privacy or personal space, towers are not better!!!
whatʼs your priority for dorms? if you donʼt mind the classics being a bit old
and less social, i would say itʼs worth it for having more privacy.
abowlofsoupp • 3mo ago
i lived in mesa towers my first year and iʼm an oldest sibling with a large ag
gap whoʼs never shared a room. ik not the same as only child, but until
college i had never shared my living space with anyone. i was the only one
my three roommates who was 1. a complete stranger, and 2. not from the
area. i absolutely loved my dorm, my roommates and i got along really well
and i never had any of the issues will maintenance that my friends in the
classic had. also because the bathroom was shared by only 8 people,
everyone was very clean (bc anyone who left a mess could be identified), t
staff came once a week to clean our bathroom too! i took stem classes and
GEʼs my first year and the walk really isnʼt bad at all (much prefer that over
the bus rides from the apartments now). i know people are comparing the
dining halls a bunch, but itʼs really not that big of a deal. your meal plan
works at both dining halls so just go to whichever has the better options th
day.
the most important thing about a quad is that you get along with your
roommates. i got really lucky that a random person i met on instagram end
up working out and is still one of my best friends. you donʼt need to be bes
friends with your roommates though, make sure youʼre compatible as
roommates before you start looking for friends!
iʼm really sorry i think some of the grammar is horrible, ill try to edit it later…
https://www.reddit.com/r/UCI/comments/1ruj1dt/dorms/
6/6/26, 2:31 PM Dorms : r/UCI
The_Great-- • 3mo ago
Take middle earth. It is was more social, people say it is not but they hating. They
dining has more homely vibe to it and the food is exactly the same
Unhappy-Welder3281 • 3mo ago
I stayed in a Mesa Court double for orientation and am currently living in a Middle Earth
double so here's my opinion for both:
Mesa Court - Cons: Unless you are a humanities or arts major, most of your classes are
probably going to be very far away from the dorms, so it could take 20+ minutes to
walk to class. I'm not sure if this is with all the dorms in Mesa Court, but at the one I
stayed at the bathrooms were stalls (which I don't really like, not sure about you
though) and the showers were glass door showers with literally nothing else meaning
someone could technically see you inside the shower. The beds in the dorms had built
in drawers underneath, unlike Middle Earth which doesn't have that, so not nearly as
much stuff can be put under the beds there.
Pros: The rooms there are very big, the double I had was huge compared to my current
one. The dorms are also more modern and the wardrobes were a lot better than the
ones in Middle Earth. There is also a volleyball net, some exercise equipment (?) and
other things outside around Mesa Court, so it's probably more social there.
Middle Earth - Cons: Supposedly there is a bug problem in Middle Earth classics,
however I haven't seen a single bug in here ever so not sure. Dorms are smaller than
Mesa Court and the furniture is a bit older, especially if you get one of the older dorms.
Pros: Way closer to classes if you are a STEM major, if you get one of the older
buildings like Rivendell (where I am), the bathrooms and showers are more private, as
they are big, single bathrooms rather than stalls. Middle Earth is pretty social, as a lot
of people hang out in the recreation center, the basketball court, or the study room.
StolenApollo • 3mo ago
Zot Tuah
https://www.reddit.com/r/UCI/comments/1ruj1dt/dorms/ 7/11
6/6/26, 2:31 PM Dorms : r/UCI
Iʼve been at UCI for a few years now and Iʼll share my opinion and the general opinion
of those I know.
First of all, do NOT get a triple. DO NOT. Thatʼs worst case scenario and a very bad
idea. Second, do not get housing at the Middle Earth classics. Theyʼre not great and
are not worth it.
If you really donʼt want a quad, Mesa Classics are an option for a double, but if Iʼm
being honest with you, Iʼve always had my own room growing up and the quad was a
million times better.
My STRONG recommendation is to find 3 others online who donʼt seem like freaks and
apply for a quad together. Iʼve heard of a few cases of this ending badly but almost
ever other case including my own was very positive. Additionally, the quads are
significantly higher quality than any of the classics and it isnʼt even close.
If youʼre literally any stem majors, I urge you to choose Middle Earth. Some people say
itʼs less social than Mesa and Iʼm really not sure where this rumor started but I think itʼs
just general judgement about stem majors but it isnʼt true. The big advantage with
Middle Earth is the proximity to classes. Some mornings, Iʼd wake up 5 minutes before
a lecture and run out and my lecture was only a few hundred feet from home which is a
game-changer. Middle Earth used to be the newer towers but Mesa recently added
another tower so that isnʼt necessarily true, but I do find the quality of Middle Earth to
be higher in the rooms, having seen both.
As for the dining halls, thereʼs a lot of yap on this thread and this is a controversy but
my personal opinion is that Brandywine is the superior dining hall. Asseatery
sometimes has more options but Brandyʼs quality is way more consistent in general.
Additionally, if you donʼt like whatever theyʼre serving on a given day and want a grilled
cheese sandwich or some sort of chicken sandiwich, brandy makes them fresh while
asseatery keeps them warm after making them in bulk so brandy is always better for
those.
At the end of the day, thereʼs no going wrong with any of these options but I will say
that my general recommendation is this order:
1. ME Towers quad
2. Mesa Towers quad
https://www.reddit.com/r/UCI/comments/1ruj1dt/dorms/ 8/11
6/6/26, 2:31 PM Dorms : r/UCI
3. Mesa Classics double
4. ME Classics double
5. Never get a triple 🙏 😭
Also, a few final notes I forgot to mention. Sharing a bathroom in the quads is MUCH
nicer than the hall bathrooms in the classics and it isnʼt even close to comparable.
They clean the bathrooms every day and do a nice clean once a week and since there
are two of everything in there, itʼs realistically like having a bathroom for your room that
4 people use which isnʼt insane.
AC is another point some people brought up. The towers at Middle Earth didnʼt have
AC and I donʼt think anything else has AC either, but the common room did have AC, so
during those times in the year, you can actually get AC by leaving your room open and
running the fan. Thatʼs what we did and it was perfectly fine. We literally never had
temperature issues.
Educational-Guitar44 OP • 3mo ago
good to know, thank you! can i ask why getting a quad might be better than a
triple? just curious about your opinion hahaha
StolenApollo • 3mo ago
Zot Tuah
I donʼt know if youʼve had a chance to see any of these rooms, but basically
the quads are the only option in the towers. The towers are better than the
classics in all cases. A triple at UCI is actually just a double with 3 ppl so you
functionally get the worst of both worlds. Youʼre in a classic, you have to
share it with others, and itʼs still a small room (the quads are MUCH larger
rooms).
Educational-Guitar44 OP • 3mo ago
ohhhh ok that makes sense, thank you!
https://www.reddit.com/r/UCI/comments/1ruj1dt/dorms/ 9/11
6/6/26, 2:31 PM Dorms : r/UCI
Civil-Grapefruit1731 • 3mo ago
I lived in the Mesa Court classics a long time ago and loved it. Back then it was only
two to a room. What I like most about my dorm is that it was freshmen only. Since we
were all new to the school and had no friends going in, everybody was incentivized to
meet other people, and you were all going through the same experience together.
We had a great RA who used to plan all kinds of activities both in the dorm and in the
area, so it helped us get acclimated to our new hometown.
Mesa Court always felt friendlier than Middle Earth. I had friends who lived over there
that said the same thing. It feels like Mesa has more open area, grass, trees, etc.
CommunicationNo7384 • 3mo ago
if your gonna do a double go mesa middle earth is so buns socially unless your in
towers which is quads only. quads are fun though mesa or mearth so try to get into one
of those. mesa is a lot better socially and really isn't too far from classes if you don't
mind the walk. just DON'T go into middle earth classics.
One_Beautiful5168 • 3mo ago
My advice donʼt come here!
PsychologicalSeat457 • 3mo ago
I lived in both middle earth and mesa court and significantly preferred Mesa court
doubles! Luckily i roomed with a friend so that helped and dont have to super worry
about sharing the space!
https://www.reddit.com/r/UCI/comments/1ruj1dt/dorms/ 10/11
6/6/26, 2:31 PM Dorms : r/UCI
No-Employment-7629 • 3mo ago
Just so you know, there's no AC @ UCI dorms.
Amans4 • 3mo ago
Ngl you should double in ACC or UTC apartments, on campus housing sucks. Great
campus though, you will love your time here!
https://www.reddit.com/r/UCI/comments/1ruj1dt/dorms/ 11/11